Microsoft Binder
================

::: {.date}
01.01.2007
:::

Opening Binder (early binding)

Before you can use this method, you must have imported the type library
(MSBdr8.olb for Binder 97).

One way of starting Binder is to try the GetActiveObject call, to get a
running instance of Binder, but put a call to CoApplication.Create in an
except clause. But except clauses are slow, and can cause problems
within the IDE for people who like Break On Exceptions set to True. The
following code removes the need for a try\...except clause, by avoiding
using OleCheck on GetActiveObject in the case when Binder is not
running.

    uses Windows, ComObj, ActiveX, OfficeBinder_TLB;
    var 
      Binder: _Binder;
      AppWasRunning: boolean; // tells you if you can close Binder when you've finished
      Unknown: IUnknown; 
      Result: HResult; 
    begin 
      AppWasRunning := False;
      Result := GetActiveObject(CLASS_Binder, nil, Unknown);
      if (Result = MK_E_UNAVAILABLE) then
        Binder := CoBinder.Create
      else begin
        { make sure no other error occurred during GetActiveObject }
        OleCheck(Result);
        OleCheck(Unknown.QueryInterface(_Binder, Binder));
        AppWasRunning := True;
      end;
      Binder.Visible := True;
      ...

Without using the type library

Automation is so much easier and faster using type libraries (early
binding) that you should avoid managing without if at all possible. But
if you really can\'t, here\'s how to get started:

    var 
      Binder: Variant; 
    begin 
      try 
        Binder := GetActiveOleObject('Office.Binder');    
      except 
        Binder := CreateOleObject('Office.Binder');    
      end; 
      Binder.Visible := True; 

 

 

\>\>\>\>\>How to close Binder\<\<\<\<\<

Here\'s the quick version:

    Binder.Close(False, ''); 

 

The first parameter determines whether changes to the open binder will
be saved before closing. If you use EmptyParam for this parameter, the
user will be asked whether to save if appropriate.

The second parameter is for the name the binder should be given when it
is saved, if it hasn\'t already been given a name. If the binder has
already been saved, this parameter is ignored.
