Как создать постоянный Alias?
=============================

::: {.date}
01.01.2007
:::

There has been a number of occasions where I needed to create persistent
BDE aliases. The point is that the DB API isn\'t very discussed and is
unkown to most Delphi developers. Despite that fact, the Dbi calls are
very powerful and useful functions.

The function below, CreateAlias, encapsulates the DbiAddAlias call, with
some error checking and BDE initialization and finalization procedures.

    uses Windows, SysUtils, DbiProcs, DbiErrs, DBTables;
     
    const
      CRLF = #13 + #10;
      ERR_ALIASDRIVERNOTFOUND = 'Specified driver does not exist.';
      ERR_ALIASALREADYEXISTS = 'The Alias (%s) already exists.' + CRLF +
        'Would you like to reconfigure it?';
      ERR_ALIASINVALIDPARAM = 'Invalid Alias name.';
      ERR_ALIASCLOSEBDE = 'Error closing the BDE.' + CRLF +
        'Please close all applications and restart Windows';
      ERR_ALIASOPENBDE = 'Error initializing BDE. Cannot create Alias.';
     
    procedure CreateAlias(sAlias, sPath, sDriver: string;
      PersistentAlias: Boolean);
    var
      dbEnv: DbiEnv;
      dbRes: DbiResult;
      Resp: word;
    begin
      { Sets the BDE environment }
      with dbEnv do
      begin
        StrPCopy(szWorkDir, sPath);
        StrPCopy(szIniFile, '');
        bForceLocalInit := True;
        StrPCopy(szLang, '');
        StrPCopy(szClientName, 'dbClientName');
      end;
      { Initalizes BDE with the environment dbEnv }
      if DbiInit(@dbEnv) <> DbiERR_NONE then
        raise Exception.Create(ERR_ALIASOPENBDE);
      { Adds the specified Alias }
      if sDriver = 'STANDARD' then
        dbRes := DbiAddAlias(nil, pchar(sAlias), nil,
          pchar('PATH:' + sPath), PersistentAlias)
      else
        dbRes := DbiAddAlias(nil, pchar(sAlias), pchar(sDriver),
          pchar('PATH:' + sPath), PersistentAlias);
      case dbRes of
        DbiERR_INVALIDPARAM:
          raise Exception.Create(ERR_ALIASINVALIDPARAM);
        DbiERR_NAMENOTUNIQUE:
          begin
            resp := MessageBox(0, pchar(Format(ERR_ALIASALREADYEXISTS, [sAlias])),
              'CreateAlias', MB_ICONSTOP + MB_YESNO);
            if Resp = ID_YES then
            begin
              Check(DbiDeleteAlias(nil, pchar(sAlias)));
              CreateAlias(sAlias, sPath, sDriver, PersistentAlias);
            end;
          end;
        DbiERR_UNKNOWNDRIVER:
          raise Exception.Create(ERR_ALIASDRIVERNOTFOUND);
      end;
      if DbiExit <> DbiERR_NONE then
        raise Exception.Create(ERR_ALIASCLOSEBDE);
    end; {CreateAlias}

The parameters for this function are:

sAlias: Name of the new alias to be created

sPath: Full path of the directory to which the alias should point. With
little adjustments, this function can be used to create any kind of
aliases, and, instead of passing the path info in this argument, pass
all the parameters needed by the driver to create the alias.

sDriver: Name of an existing BDE driver, such as PARADOX, DBASE,
STANDARD

PersistentAlias: Determines whether the new alias will be for future use
(persistent) or just for the actual session.

Example of usage:

CreateAlias(\'DBTEST\',
\'c:\\progra\~1\\borland\\delphi\~1\\projects\\cd3\\data\', \'PARADOX\',

true);

Взято с Delphi Knowledge Base: <https://www.baltsoft.com/>
