Работа с индексами
==================

::: {.date}
01.01.2007
:::

Each function listed below returns information about an index or
indexes, or performs a task that affects an index, such as dropping it,
deleting it, or adding it.

DbiAddIndex:

Creates an index on an existing table.

DbiCloseIndex:

Closes the specified index on a cursor.

DbiCompareKeys:

Compares two key values based on the current index of the cursor.

DbiDeleteIndex:

Drops an index on a table.

DbiExtractKey:

Retrieves the key value for the current record of the given cursor or
from the supplied record buffer.

DbiGetIndexDesc:

Retrieves the properties of the given index associated with the cursor.

DbiGetIndexDescs:

Retrieves index properties.

DbiGetIndexForField:

Returns the description of any useful index on the specified field.

DbiGetIndexSeqNo:

Retrieves the ordinal number of the index in the index list of the
specified cursor.

DbiGetIndexTypeDesc:

Retrieves a description of the index type.

DbiOpenIndex:

Opens the index for the table associated with the cursor.

DbiRegenIndex:

Regenerates an index to make sure that it is up-to-date (all records
currently in the table

are included in the index and are in the index order).

DbiRegenIndexes:

Regenerates all out-of-date indexes on a given table.

DbiSwitchToIndex:

Allows the user to change the active index order of the given cursor.

Взято с Delphi Knowledge Base: <https://www.baltsoft.com/>
