Копировать узлы с поддеревом TTreeView во второй TTreeView
==========================================================

::: {.date}
01.01.2007
:::

    {type
       {: Callback to use to copy the data of a treenode when the 
         node itself is copied by CopySubtree. 
       @param oldnode is the old node 
       @param newnode is the new node 
       @Desc Use a callback of this type to implement your own algorithm 
         for a node copy. The default just uses the Assign method, which 
         produces a shallow copy of the nodes Data property. }
       TCopyDataProc = procedure(oldnode, newnode : TTreenode);
     
     {: The default operation is to do a shallow copy of the node, via 
    Assign. }
     procedure DefaultCopyDataProc(oldnode, newnode : TTreenode);
     begin
       newnode.Assign(oldnode);
     end;
     
     {-- CopySubtree 
    -------------------------------------------------------}
     {: Copies the source node with all child nodes to the target treeview. 
    @Param sourcenode is the node to copy 
    @Param target is the treeview to insert the copied nodes into 
    @Param targetnode is the node to insert the copy under, can be nil to 
      make the copy a top-level node. 
    @Param CopyProc is the (optional) callback to use to copy a node. 
      If Nil is passed for this parameter theDefaultCopyDataProc will be 
    used. 
    @Precondition  sourcenode <> nil, target <> nil, targetnode is either 
      nil or a node of target 
    @Raises Exception if targetnode happens to be in the subtree rooted in 
      sourcenode. Handling that special case is rather complicated, so we 
      simply refuse to do it at the moment. 
    }{ Created 2003-04-09 by P. Below ----------------------------------------------------------------------- 
    }
     procedure CopySubtree(sourcenode : TTreenode; target : TTreeview;
       targetnode : TTreenode; CopyProc : TCopyDataProc = nil);
     var
       anchor : TTreenode;
       child : TTreenode;
     begin { CopySubtree }
       Assert(Assigned(sourcenode),
         'CopySubtree:sourcenode cannot be nil');
       Assert(Assigned(target),
         'CopySubtree: target treeview cannot be nil');
       Assert((targetnode = nil) or (targetnode.TreeView = target),
         'CopySubtree: targetnode has to be a node in the target treeview.');
     
       if (sourcenode.TreeView = target) and
         (targetnode.HasAsParent(sourcenode) or (sourcenode =
         targetnode)) then
         raise Exception.Create('CopySubtree cannot copy a subtree to one of the ' +
           'subtrees nodes.');
     
       if not Assigned(CopyProc) then
         CopyProc := DefaultCopyDataProc;
     
       anchor := target.Items.AddChild(targetnode, sourcenode.Text);
       CopyProc(sourcenode, anchor);
       child := sourcenode.GetFirstChild;
       while Assigned(child) do
        begin
         CopySubtree(child, target, anchor, CopyProc);
         child := child.getNextSibling;
       end; { While }
     end; { CopySubtree }
     
     
     procedure TForm1.Button1Click(Sender : TObject);
     begin
       if assigned(treeview1.selected) then
         CopySubtree(treeview1.selected, treeview2, nil);
     end;

Взято с сайта: <https://www.swissdelphicenter.ch>
