Как преобразовать указатель на метод в указатель на функцию?
============================================================

::: {.date}
01.01.2007
:::

    // Converting method pointers into function pointers 
    // Often you need a function pointer for a callback function. But what, if you want to specify a method as 
    // an callback? Converting a method pointer to a function pointer is not a trivial task; both types are 
    // incompatible with each other. Although you have the possibility to convert like this "@TClass.SomeMethod", 
    // this is more a hack than a solution, because it restricts the use of this method to some kind of a class 
    // function, where you cannot access instance variables. If you fail to do so, you'll get a wonderful gpf. 
    // But there is a better solution: run time code generation! Just allocate an executable memory block, and 
    // write 4 machine code instructions into it: 2 instructions loads the two pointers of the method pointer 
    // (code & data) into the registers, one calls the method via the code pointer, and the last is just a return 
    // Now you can use this pointer to the allocated memory as a plain function pointer, but in fact you are 
    // calling a method for a specific instance of a Class. 
     
     
     
    type TMyMethod = procedure of object; 
     
     
    function MakeProcInstance(M: TMethod): Pointer; 
    begin 
      // allocate memory 
      GetMem(Result, 15); 
      asm 
        // MOV ECX,  
        MOV BYTE PTR [EAX], $B9 
        MOV ECX, M.Data 
        MOV DWORD PTR [EAX+$1], ECX 
        // POP EDX 
        MOV BYTE PTR [EAX+$5], $5A 
        // PUSH ECX 
        MOV BYTE PTR [EAX+$6], $51 
        // PUSH EDX 
        MOV BYTE PTR [EAX+$7], $52 
        // MOV ECX,  
        MOV BYTE PTR [EAX+$8], $B9 
        MOV ECX, M.Code 
        MOV DWORD PTR [EAX+$9], ECX 
        // JMP ECX 
        MOV BYTE PTR [EAX+$D], $FF 
        MOV BYTE PTR [EAX+$E], $E1 
      end; 
    end; 
     
     
    procedure FreeProcInstance(ProcInstance: Pointer); 
    begin 
      // free memory 
      FreeMem(ProcInstance, 15); 
    end; 

Взято с сайта <https://www.swissdelphicenter.ch/en/tipsindex.php>
